[MUSIC]
>> Douglas Crockford: JavaScript functions
have return statements return statement
stops the execution of the function
returns control to the caller and
can also optionally return a value.
Return statement contained
can take an expression and
will evaluate the expression
return its value or
you can have a return statement
that returns nothing.
It will actually return
the value undefined or
if the function falls through the bottom,
it will return the undefined value.
>> Douglas Crockford: I recommend that
you not make function objects in a loop.
It can be wasteful, because every
new function object is created on
every iteration, so
that could be expensive.
It can also be confusing, because
the new function closes over the loops
variables not over their current values
and that confusion can lead to bugs.
For example, here we've got a for
loop, which is going to loop over
an array of divs and it's gonna
add a click handler to each one,
which when clicked on will
alert the id of the div and
this code looks very straightforward,
but it will fail.
And the way it fails is no
matter which div you click on,
they will all display the same id.
It'll be the last one and
it's because what's being captured by
the inner function is the current value of
div.id not not the value of div.id the at
the time that the function was created.
So the way to get around that is
to not use a four loop at all,
use four each and will pass in a function,
which will receive each div of as
an argument and will alert correctly.
>> Douglas Crockford: We invoke functions
with the pairing suffix operator,
which will surround zero or
more comma separated arguments and
each of those arguments will be bound to
one of the parameters of the function.
If a function is called
with too many arguments,
the extra arguments are ignored.
It is not an error.
If an argument is called
with too few arguments,
the missing values will
be the undefined value.
If there is no explicit type checking
on the arguments, on their types or
on their numbers.
So if you really care about that stuff,
you need to check it yourself.
Generally, you don't have to.
It turns out most of the defaults
in JavaScript are right.
So that if you don't do checking,
it'll usually do the right thing anyway.
So in addition to any parameters that are
formally defined as part of a function,
there are also two bonus pseudo
parameters that you can also get access
to arguments and this.
I don't recommend using either of them,
but
they're both very popular in the language.
So, I'd need to describe them both.
I will start with the arguments.
When a function is invoked in addition to
its parameters, it also gets a special
printer called arguments and it contains
all of the arguments from the invocation.
So everything that got passed in
the parens are called the function,
every one of those values will
be in the arguments array.
Now one problem with the arguments
array is, it is not really an array,
even in the weird way that
JavaScript thinks of arrays.
It is an array like object.
It's an object that has a length property,
but it's not a magical length property and
it doesn't inherit any of
the useful array methods.
So, it's a difficult thing to work with.
You do get arguments dot length, which
will be the number of arguments that were
actually passed and there's a weird
interaction with the parameters.
So if you change arguments sub zero,
the first parameter also changes.
If you change the second parameter,
then argument sub one changes for
the people who make JavaScript engines.
This is maybe the most hated
feature of the language,
cuz they're working really hard
to try to make it go fast and
you can't go fast when you have
to mess with behavior like that.
So, let me show you an example
of how you could use it.
So we've got a simple sum function,
which will receive some variable number of
numbers and it will add them up and
return the total.
So, we're going to get from
arguments that length and
the number of things
that we're going to add.
We're gonna loop through in and
we're gonna get each of those arguments,
and add it to the total.
Notice I didn't include any parameters in
some, cuz I didn't need to I could have.
But it wasn't necessary, because I'm
getting all the material from arguments.
>> Douglas Crockford: So now this
is a really difficult thing to have
in any language, because it makes
the language hard to talk about.
It's like pair programming with Abbott and
Costello.
So, bear with me.
So, the this parameter contains
a reference to the object of invocation.
This allows a method to know what
object it is concerned with.
This allows a single function
object to service many objects and
it's the key to prototypal inheritance.
>> Douglas Crockford: There are four
ways to call a function in JavaScript.
The function form, method form,
constructor form and apply form,
four forms.
I think in a well-designed language,
there should be one form, but
we've got four and the way they
vary is in what happens to this.
So, let's start with the method form.
The method form, we say,
some object dot method name or
some object bracket, an expression
that evaluates to a method name.
When we call a function this way,
then this will get bound to this object.
It allows the method that gets called
to know which object it's going to
be manipulating.
In most languages, the binding
of this happens fairly late, but
nobody does it as late as JavaScript.
Java Script doesn't bind this
until the moment of invocation,
then there's the function form,
which looks the same,
except we don't have an object prefix.
So, we just have some function value and
we call that.
In this case,
this gets bounced to the global object.
It's the thing that is the container
of all the global variables and
that's a terrible thing, because it's
leaking way too much capability.
It's a security hazard,
it's a reliability hazard.
This was sort of fixed in ES5/Strict mode.
>> Douglas Crockford: But not completely.
In ES5/Strict mode,
this gets bound to undefined.
So at least we're not binding
it to something dangerous,
but sometimes it's not
what you want either.
That if you have an inner
function inside of a method,
you want the inner function to
help the method do its work.
But the inner function
doesn't get to see this,
because the inner function
gets called as a function.
And so, it's this will be either
the global object or undefined.
So the workaround is in the outer
function, in the method,
you create a variable called
that assign this to it and
then the inner function gets to see that.
>> Douglas Crockford: Then
there is a constructor form,
it looks like the function form,
except there is a new prefix.
And when a function is
called with a new prefix,
a new object is created and
will be bound to this.
And if the constructor function does
not have an explicit return value,
then this will be the return value and
this is used in the pseudo classical
style, which will get to in a few minutes.
And finally, there is the apply form.
In the apply form, you call the apply
method of the function object and
you get to specify what the value
of this is going to be.
In addition, you can also provide
either an array of arguments or
you can provide individual
arguments separated by commas.
>> Douglas Crockford: So to summarize,
there are four invocation forms, function,
method, constructor and apply.
They each vary according
to what they do with this.
And again, I don't recommend using
this at all, but that's how most
people use the language and I'll show
you an alternative in a few minutes.
So, you all know about recursion.
That's when you have a function that
is defined in terms of itself or
the can call itself really,
really important thing.
I don't need to tell you about Quicksort,
that's one of the important
examples of using recursion.
JavaScript has a recursion, which is good.
If you're not familiar with
recursive functions, I highly,
highly recommend a book called
The Little Lisper, which has been revised.
It's now called the Little Schemer.
It's based on the Scheme language,
but it's not really about scheme.
It's about recursive functions and
everything in that book can be written in
JavaScript and this web page will give
you the key to to doing that translation.
Highly, highly recommended.
This is one of those books that can
significantly change the way you think in
a really good way.
>> Douglas Crockford: There's another
book called The Principles of
Programming Languages by RC Tennent and
one of his principles is the principle
of correspondence in which he
talks about how variables are like
parameters in some languages.
So here, we have two versions
of the factorial function and
one of them result is a variable and
the other the result is a parameter.
Otherwise, these two functions
do exactly the same thing.
And so, this demonstrates
the similarity of variables and
parameters based on how
the function is constructed.
The interesting thing about
the second function is,
it's using an immediately
revocable function expression.
So here, we have a function, declaration
or function of expression, which is
creating a new function object, which we
then call immediately passing in the one.
So in general,
we can take any expression and
wrap it in a function that will
return that expression and
call the function immediately and
it does the same thing as expression.
It's just more verbose, but
it does the same thing.
Now, turns out this is not true
in JavaScript for all values.
For example,
these and arguments change their meaning
when you put them in a different function.
So it doesn't work for
them, but it works for
all other expressions and
it works for four statements.
You can take any bunch of statements and
put them in a function and
call immediately and it's says, though,
you had executed those statements,
except that var function
break continue and
return change their meaning when
you put them in another function.
Otherwise, you can do this transformation
and there are some interesting
things that can happen as a result
of being being able to do this.
So, this is a feature that you look for
in a functional language.